Hi there.
This is the model group.
So we understand what a string is.
Next, we need to learn about string manipulation.
For that, we need to get a good understanding of the string class.
We know that that string class is from the Java Lang package, which means that it's a very fundamental
class and it supports several methods to manipulate strings.
And these methods allow us to perform certain common operations which are shown here.
So we have methods to compare to strengths or to search for one string within another, or to examine
individual characters in a string, or to even extract some strings from a string.
There are also key conversion methods.
For example, we may want a copy of a string button uppercase on the.
And there are also methods to replace one or more parts of a string with some other text.
Finally, there are also methods to split a string based on some characters.
So let's go ahead and look at several methods that perform these common operations.
Okay.
I'm going to show this demo in my Eclipse editor, but you can continue using the editor that you're
using right now, and it's not going to make any difference.
So for this demo, I added a new method called string examples to the basic demo class, and the string
examples is going to be invoked from the main method.
So all the code has been written and we are just going to run and look at the and analyze the output
because there are a lot of methods that we are going to look at in the string class.
So it will be very time consuming to write everything down.
So we are going to look at a lot of these methods now and we know that it's already mentioned that the
methods fall under different categories like the common operations are comparison searching.
So we are going to look at all of the common operations.
So this is the method and initially we are declaring this method, this variable called TSS, which
is string, and it has the string called as Helloworld and we are printing it out and the first two
methods here are length and is empty and all the methods are here and the remaining methods they have
been commented out and we are going to uncomment them and look, look at those methods one at a time.
So let me just go ahead and run it around the class.
So let me just click here on.
Here.
So the length method returns the the size of the string.
That is the length of the string.
In this case it has 12 characters, so it's going to return 12.
And that is empty method.
It's it returns a Boolean value.
It just returns a true if the string is empty, which means that the length is zero.
But in this case, since the length is 12, it is going to return a false.
So those are the left and the SNP methods.
So let me just comment these two statements and let's let's look at the next.
Bunch of methods which are comparison methods may comment this.
So here there are three methods equals equals ignore case and compare to.
And let me just run them.
Okay.
So the equals method is just going to compare the two strings.
TSS Here is as has the hello world and the argument is also hello world.
So it's, it's going to compare both the strings and if both the strings are equal it's going to return
it true.
Otherwise it returns a false.
In this case it returns a false because one of them is in lowercase while the other one is in uppercase.
So the case matters here and so it returns a false.
Now the next method is equals ignore case.
So it is saying that we need to ignore the case.
So that's the reason why we get a true value here.
Because once we ignore the case, both the strings are same.
Now the third method is compared to so the earlier two methods return a boolean value, whereas a compared
to method returns an end value and it will return either a negative integer or a positive integer or
zero.
It will return zero if the two strings are exactly identical.
But what this method does is it compares the two strings, lexicography.
Now we know that the strings are internally represented as UTF 16, which is one of the Unicode schemes.
So the strings would have some each character in the string would have a Unicode value.
And what this method is going to do is it's going to compare the Unicode value of the characters in
the two strings.
So that's what it says it's going to do.
Compare the two strings lexical graphically.
And the comparison here is based on the Unicode value of each character in the strings.
So when we hover over this method, we get this description here and here it says the result is a negative
integer.
If this string object, whenever it says this string object, it means that we are talking about the
current object, which would be as in this case.
And it says, if the string object lexicography actually precedes the argument string, then the result
is a negative integer.
But if the string if the string object lexicography really follows the argument string, then it would
be a positive integer.
So in this case, it returns a 32.
And that's because this particular the input string which is in lowercase, actually follows the, the,
the argument string which is in uppercase.
So in Unicode, always, if you look at the Unicode table, you will see that the uppercase letters
come before the lowercase letters.
And because of that, in this case, because the two strings are identical, but the character small
lowercase h here in the that is being referenced by s here comes after the uppercase H.
So because of that, it returns a positive integer.
Now, let me just change this to let's say let's make it Z here.
And this one is H.
In this case, this is going to precede this one.
And so we will get a negative value.
See it returns -18.
So that's what it is.
So you can take a look at this compared to a method.
You can look at the API and you can read this carefully so that you can digest it properly.
So basically, it returns three values only.
So that's that's about the comparison methods.
So let me just comment them out.
And let's look at the search methods now.
So there are a lot of search methods here.
Okay.
So these are the search methods and let's run it.
Okay so we have contains starts with and with index of and last index of.
So here it just checks if this string contains the argument string and once again case matters.
So because they are of different case, it returns false.
Now the second method is as DOT contains word world and it is also in lowercase and our input on our
string that s is referencing is Hello world and world is part of that string, right?
So because of that it returns it true.
Now the next one is starts with starts with is also a very important method and it says F the current
string starts with the input string.
Once again case matters so it would return a false.
But for the second one we are using the same case as as the as the current string.
So because of that it would return it.
True.
So it could be helloworld or it could be just hello.
Also, even in that case it would return it now.
And so it is just exactly reverse of starts with it just checks if the current string ends with this
particular string, it need not be a single character, it can be multiple characters also.
So in this case it's an exclamation mark on the current string.
Also Hello World also ends with and with an exclamation so it would return it to.
The next one is index of here we are doing a search and we are checking if this input string, the argument
string is present in the in the current string.
If this if if these characters appear in the string, then it is going to return the index of that now.
Hello.
Okay, let's just consider this.
Hello world here.
So low is appearing here.
Zero, zero, one, two and three.
Hello.
It's.
It's good.
So that's the index position.
That's the start of the index position at three.
So that's why we get an index of three.
So if you want to if you want to know the index of a particular string, then you can use the index
of operation.
And here we are just doing index of or instead of L or we are doing an index of O and O is actually
appearing here at the fourth position.
I'm just showing it here because it's just the same string that we have.
So all will over return an index of four.
The index position starts with zero.
Just remember that it's not from one and the last one is last index of because this particular character
here can appear at multiple places in the string.
So this one here we are requesting to give the last index of position.
Now, if the character does not appear in this thing, then it would return a minus one.
So if it appears, then it would return the index position, otherwise it would return the minus one.
So here index of would return the first index position where the character is appearing or it would
return minus one last index of would return the last index position where the particular character is
appearing.
So the methods, as you can see, are very meaningfully named.
So that's about those methods.
So let me just go ahead and comment this out.
Next, let's look at both individual characters and also extracting some strengths.
Okay.
So let me just run this.
So this particular.
Here.
This particular method character.
So it's just we are requesting to retain the character at that particular position for.
So here is the hello world.
And at fourth position, zero one, two, three and four, we have the letter.
The letter O, and that's being written here.
So here we can see the output and the next two methods are about extracting sub strings.
So these are also important methods.
So the first method would return the substring starting from the index position for the end of the current
string.
So from here the fourth position is oh, and it's going to return the the entire substring from the
index position for the end of the string which would be this particular string.
So that's how you will get substring.
And there is also an overloaded substring method which would return a substring between these two indices
where for it's four and nine.
Here, four is inclusive and nine is exclusive, which means that we should not include the character
at the ninth position, but we should include the character at position four and all the characters
in between two, but not the one at nine.
So that would return this particular string.
It starts from here.
Four, five, six, seven, eight.
And it's not going to include the ninth one.
So that's about extracting some strings.
So these are all very important methods when we are doing string manipulation, text manipulation,
which should be pretty common these days because we have a lot of text on the web and we have to process
a lot of text.
So next are the uppercase and the lowercase.
And let's look at both of these.
The key is conversion methods.
So to look at that train method.
So let me run it.
Here.
Uppercase is simply going to convert the current string, which is in lowercase.
It's going to convert it into uppercase and the lowercase method simply converts it into lowercase,
but it's already in lowercase.
So we are good, but still it tries to convert.
In case if if it was in some other case, it would have converted it.
So okay.
And just note that we mentioned that string is immutable.
So when we do two uppercase, it's going to return a copy of the string.
It's not going to convert that particular string itself.
So it's just going to return a copy of the of this particular string, but an uppercase.
That's because string is immutable.
We cannot we cannot mutate it.
And here is the trim method.
And the trim method would simply return a copy of a string after trimming any leading and trailing white
spaces.
So if there are any white spaces, either at the beginning of the string or at the end, so those will
be trimmed.
So sometimes that would be very important because when we in documents be a lot of times we have white
spaces, especially when we're dealing with web pages.
Now next is the replace method, which is also very important.
Sometimes we may want to replace some special characters in a piece of text with with whitespace or
something like that.
So we will need that.
So.
Let me comment that.
Okay.
So here we are replacing the character and the input string with the character.
Ah, so you can see that o is replaced with ah here.
Typically you might want to replace a particular some special symbols with you know with an empty,
with an empty string or something like that or replace commas here.
Here is an example.
So we have nice little description here.
If you want to replace commas with whitespace, then you can put a comma here and you can put an empty
string here.
So you would just do this, it would be an empty string and that's it.
And it would replace the cosmos with the empty string.
So that's very useful.
Now.
Let's look at the spring split method.
And after the split we have the value of.
So let's look at.
The split method.
So as the name suggests, it's going to split the input string using this particular character here,
which is Oh, so when we split it returns an array of strings here.
You can see that it's an array of strings.
Now, in this case, all is appearing twice, one here and one here.
So it's going to return three strings.
This is one substring hel here l And between the two occurrences there is one more substring whitespace
and w and after the last substring is this one are d followed by an exclamation, and we are just iterating
through the list of string sub strings and we are printing it.
So sometimes you might want to split a document into words, you might want to split them by whitespace
so you can just put a whitespace here and it would split the entire document.
If the document is being stored in the string here, if the string represents a document, it would
do that.
Or if sometimes if you are processing some documents and if you're processing a particular line of text
and in the line of text, you might have some data and the data might be separated by types or comma
or whitespace, in which case you can split them.
So the tab would be a delimiter here, or comma, comma or whitespace could be the delimiter.
So you can specify the delimiter here and split that particular line.
So you can split when you're processing certain documents you where the data is delimited by these kind
of characters.
Mm.
Then you can make use of the split.
So that's the split method, very useful method.
And finally we have the static method.
Okay.
So this is a static method.
All the methods that we have seen so far are instance methods of the string class.
But this one is a static method and that's why we are directly accessing the value of method here.
And it would return a string representation of this double value.
So it returns a string of the double value.
As you can see here, it returns the data type that's being returned is a string, so it's just going
to return the string.
So let me just run it.
Here it is.
It returns a string representation and there are also other overloaded methods.
So these are some of the important methods and there are many other methods, many of them overloaded
methods, and there are also there can be also other methods in the string class.
So I would encourage you to look at the API and familiarize yourself with all the methods in the API
in the string class, because it's a very important class.
So that's about the string class.
Now let's just head back to our slides and finish off the lecture.
Here are some extremely useful third party string utility classes, and these classes do offer additional
features that are usually not available in the standard string class that comes with the Java library.
Sometimes they may offer very similar features like the string class, but they may enable you to write
much more cleaner code.
So although you will extensively use the string class, it is very likely that you will use one or both
of these utilities.
The first one is the Apache Common Slang Library, which is from the Apache Commons project, and it
includes a very popular class called String Utils, which is used for string manipulation.
I have also used this class quite a bit and some of my projects.
Next.
Google's go up project also includes a few string utility classes.
So just be aware that these classes exist and they are commonly used by developers.
At some point you should check out their APIs.
And also, don't forget to check out the API of the string class as it is very commonly used in general.
If you have to perform some string manipulation and if you are not aware of any of the methods in the
string class which may help you with it, then just go for it.
And it is likely that there will be some method either in the string class or one of these third party
libraries that may help you with your task.
In the worst case, almost always you will discover some post on StackOverflow which could help you
with that.
So always do your research on Google before coming up with some new logic.
All right, then.
That's about it.
And I hope you like learning about the string class.
Thank you.